---
title: Cider Release 2.3.0
description: Huge Update! Release 2.3.0
author: d3rpp
navigation.date: navigation.date: February 2, 2024
---

# Cider 2.3.0

## What's new

### General

- Added light mode
  - Can be set in `Visual -> General -> Color Scheme`
- New layouts available
  - **Calico** - Based on Mojave, features a split view styled layout
  - **Montara** - Based on Mavericks, features a split view styled layout
- New Player Types
  - **Comfy** – What’s typically default in Cider, commonly recognizable.
  - **Compact** – a new slim experience for folks in need of extra vertical space or have portrait monitors.
  - **Compact Inline** – an alternate version of Compact that allows for even more compactness, and inline icons.
- Improvements to Mavericks
  - Navigation is now inlined with content
  - Fixes to badges in now playing LCD
  - Moved some controls into the player
  - Various fixes to inconsistancies
- Deprecated ClientDB in favor of new caching system
- New content caching solution
  - Speed increase to library sections of the app after they've been loaded for the first time
  - Signifigantly less network + disk activity on startup
- Implemented background refreshes for content
  - Refreshes only occur when the app is focused, they are paused when the app is in the background to save resources.
- Built-in keybindings now use Meta (Apple) key when on macOS
- New custom overlay scrollbars for various components
- Fixed WinUI style title bar always being centered
- Fixes scrollbars on Windows (v103 of WebView2)
- Unplayable items will now display why they are unplayable
- Reduced non-playback background activity when not in focus for less resource usage
- Fixed an issue where some MediaItems would load their tracks for an artwork collection they are not using
- Fixes to storefront content
- Fixed Playlist Refresh notification
- Alt + Enter will enter set the app to fullscreen for Windows and Linux
- OOBE now has a section for choosing a layout
- Fixed window vibrancy not working correctly on macOS
- Various LastFM fixes
- Fixes playlist list in context menu randomly opening
- 'Love' has been changed to 'Favorite'
- Ultra Wide setting in Advanced now fully uncaps the width (any visual errors that occur because of this being enabled will not recieve a lot of support)

### Audio

- Audio Quality can now be forced and set in the “Audio” category, available types: 64kbps (Low), 256kbps (High)
- Flavor Hack has been removed in exchange for the new bitrate handler.
- Equalizer added to Audio Lab settings. (**Experimental** feature, needs to be enabled in `Settings > Experimental`)

### Podcasts

- Experimental Podcast Support in `Settings > Experimental`

### Playlists / Albums

- Added Playlist Suggestions (from iOS 17.1)
  - Suggested tracks can be added and previewed from this panel
- Better caching for faster loading
- 'Love' has been changed to 'Favorite' for iOS 17.1 consistency.
- Added favorites indicator to tracks
- Various performance and loading speed adjustments
- Optimized number of API calls when navigating to playlist / album pages
- Putting in place some support for future official Collaborative playlists
  - Collaborators are now displayed on playlists and individual tracks
- Added setting: `Visual -> Content Preferences -> Popularity Threshold`
  - Allows you to adjust the minimum popularity required for indicators to be displayed next to a track.
- Tracks can now be previewed in the playlist editor

### Immersive

- Added Immersive catalog browser
  - Browse your library or the Apple Music catalog from inside Immersive
- New layout: **One Classic**
  - Modeled after the original Immersive layout from the Cider 2 Alpha
  - Has the full Mojave playback bar
  - Static artwork position
  - Has a shortcut to the catalog browser on the player
- New Background Types
  - **Simple Artwork** - The current tracks artwork but blurred and filtered
  - **Simple Color** - The current tracks color scheme as the background supplied by the Apple Music API
- Fixed default background not working for iCloud uploaded tracks
- Player controls now time out with inactivity, hiding the cursor
- Immersive **One** layout
  - Changed size of artwork
  - Simplified metadata display when controls have timed out
- Artwork now shows fallback color until the image has loaded

### Lyrics

Huge improvements to lyrics ⚡

- New more optimized scrolling code
- Scrolling curve and duration can be modified from Visual -> Lyrics
- Scrolling performance improvements
- Fixes issue where speed of scrolling is inconsitant between different monitor refresh rates
  - macOS users should notice a dramatic improvement over previous lyrics
- Sing style lyrics now flicker less
- Lyrics Romaji Support
  - Can be enabled via the “Translations” feature in the Lyrics settings, find translation styles with “-romaji”
- Added Tweaks -> Lyrics -> Sing Lyrics Everywhere
  - Sing Lyrics are now going to be disabled outside of Immersive by default for better initial performance.

### Miniplayer

Overhauled current miniplayer to match Apple Music Preview & Apple Music (macOS)

- Miniplayer now matches AMP & AMM counterparts.
- Lyrics can now be viewed from miniplayer
- Microplayer available to shrink it down even more
- New Mini-Context menu.

### Library Songs

- Added favorites badges
- Added "Favorites Only" toggle
- Improved Appearance
- Column View similar to iTunes/AM official clients.
- Date release is now displayed.
- Genre is also now displayed.

### Artist page

- Items now show their release date
- Styling changes

### Sidebar

- Songs can be right clicked to quickly shuffle all library songs.
- Adjusted font spacing to better fit custom fonts.
- Sidebar can now be shrunken into a "Compact" form, similar to AM Preview.
- Sidebar is now space aware and will enter a popout mode if Window is too small.

### Settings

- Revamped settings panel
- Added `Advanced -> Tweaks`, allows for more diverse control over specific app functions/appearances.
- Added several Appearance related settings under Visual.
- Rearranged several settings to more obvious locations
- Added `Audio -> Show Badges`
- Added `Audio -> Exponential Volume`
  - Uses a more traditional volume curve instead of precise percentage values, like Spotify and other clients.

### Keybinds

- Various Keybinds added around the app, can be adjusted in `General -> Keybinds`.
- `Alt + Enter` will now enter Fullscreen for Windows & Linux
- Built-in Keybinds now use Meta (Apple) key when on macOS.
- Spacebar will now toggle music playback.

### Languages & Region

- Changing language will also change your Browse, Listen Now, etc. storefronts to their respective place. (Japanese -> Japan)
- Various Language adjustments, loading entailments.
- English has been renamed to English (United States), and English (United Kingdom) accordingly.

## Queue

- Added Play button to items in the Queue
- Added Remove button on Queue Items

## Developer

- WebSockets (available on Windows only at the moment) can be enabled under Connectivity
  - Electron support is in the works
- Cider ThemeKit introduced (Experimental, Get it from here: https://github.com/ciderapp/cider-themekit)

### Bug Fixes

#### Sabiiro

- Fixed a case where Sabiiro will fail to write the config file for some users

- WebView2 is now bundled with the app, Cider will be an overall larger package due to this.

#### MacOS

- Fixed window vibrancy not working correctly on macOS.
