---
title: Cider 2.x Beta 30
description: Happy Late Easter! 🎉
author: core
navigation.date: April 21, 2023
getLogId: 06d893e8-e07a-11ed-a059-0200555c4945
image: 2.x-beta21.jpg
---

# Cider 2.x (Beta 30)

**Happy Late Easter! 🎉**

_First things first, we're terrible at maintaining these logs, only boops is making changelogs for releases, so enjoy this changelog of a ton all changes from April 1st to present (including remix branch changes), all other changes I've just given up with, with that I just skipped 8 beta versions because why not._

### Features and Improvements

- Pinned items have been added to the home page.
  - These can be added via the context menu on any Media Item
  - A menu to edit the pinned items can be found on the home page
- A new search bar at the top of the page has been added, giving users search suggestions and moving the Browse, Listen Now and Radio pages to the sidebar.
- A new vibrancy option has been added, Tabbed Mica.
- A new UI for the listen together party view has been added.
- An AI assistant named Saki has been added into Cider (can be turned in in Settings), this is very early in development and is limited in what responses it can give.

- Shortcut for Ctrl+F will now invoke the search bar.
- A button to shuffle a users song library has been added.
- Added new button in settings to allow users to manually reset their ClientDB.
- Searching albums, playlists and the library pages now happens in a much more efficient manner, and is much faster.
- API option for Recently Added has been clarified and has been merged into the same page as the ClientDB.
- Mica has been disabled for users on Windows 10 due to it causing the window to be unreadable

### Squashed Issues

1. Disabled search suggestions when searching library (#146)
2. Fixed issue with duplicate entries on artist page with pinned items (#142)
3. Explicit songs now playing for certain users (#140)
4. Sorting now persists for library pages and playlists:

- #128
- #135
- #138

5. Turbo calls no longer fail on certain editorial pages / playlists (#124)
6. Duplicate songs fail to prompt user to remove duplicates (#19)
7. Share buttons have now been fixed to correctly copy the URL to clipboard (#104)

### Final Notes

- With the ClientDB no longer having the Out of Memory error, more functionality has been added to support it, I strongly recommend enabling it in settings when you can in order for us to get the most test coverage possible.
- Various other styling changes have been made throughout the UI that I've probably missed, its not that easy to read commit logs for this.
